to truly be free you have to be strong
enough to control your own life and many
men today simply do not qualify many of
you have been told the pursuit of power
is disgusting you shouldn't do it many
of you don't even have a clear
definition of what it means to be a
strong man and as today's guest Patrick
B David says we have a hero making
machine problem so today Patrick and I
are going to dissect the current crisis
of masculinity as well as what true
power really is and how to have it in
abundance let me ask are men today weak
and if so what can we do about it if you
look at data yes from 1960 till today
our population has increased around 90%
but in
1960 7 million people used to live by
themselves today 38 million W 442 per
increase right so what happens when
we're alone you don't have competition
kick and your ass challenging you
pushing you having all that stuff taking
place standards today are slightly uh
lower uh you can look at strength with
men with boys what they have going on uh
then there's another data that's deeply
concerning when you look at from
1940 the percentage of kids that were
born to a single mother in 1940 was 4%
1940 4% that means 96% of kids that were
born in 1940 were born in a household of
a mom and a dad in today we went from 4%
in 1940 to 40% today that's 10x a data
we do not want to be bragging about by
the way worldwide we're the worst when
you look at data China India they keep
it together we don't keep it together
Middle Easterns they keep it together
Muslims keep it together but in America
we've gone a complete different way now
some people will say this was FDR's bad
policies because the whole welfare state
some will say this was Lyndon Johnson
but regardless who we choose to blame
and put the responsibility on here's
what we will look at a father offers two
things that naturally comes to him when
it comes on to boys so when we're
talking choose your enemies wise day I'm
talking to Tom Brady and I said
Tom when I look at somebody that does
something very big they have three
things in common one they experienced
unconditional love so somebody that no
matter what you did you got arrested oh
my God babe are you okay what happened
in jail did they do anything to you like
you can't do nothing wrong in this
person's eye like you actually
understand I cannot believe this human
being loves me and I can go to jail you
still love me freaking awesome right we
need that the second thing we need is an
unbelievable amount of pain from someone
you loved meaning no matter what you and
I do we can never make this person happy
you can win Mr Olympia you can become a
billionaire you can become a president
you can become whatever you want to
become this to this person's ey it's
always going to be like yeah whatever
but yeah whatever so you're never going
to win this person and your entire life
you're pursuing converting this person
and baptizing them into finally
celebrating your success right and the
last thing was you choose your enemies
wisely Brady choses enemies wisely Dana
White choses enemies wisely you got a
lot of these guys that you look at so
where am I going with this you come back
to the boys you're asking about young
boys not having a father father gives
one of three elements that you need as a
as a kid growing up you have to be loved
but you need somebody you fear and you
need somebody you respect if a boy is
raised most boys you get to an age I
remember one time I'm 14 years old my
mom is hitting me and I'm like what are
you doing your hand hurts what are you
doing it's the last time she hit me cuz
it it hurt her her when she's hitting me
I'm 14 years old it's doing nothing to
me that was the last time I said you can
hit me all you want it's not going to do
anything to me so what happened in that
moment I no longer feared her I no
longer saw her from an authority place I
just saw her from place that I love her
not fear not respect like you're going
to make me do something you can't make
me do anything I'm coming home at 10:00
my parents were divorced I'm coming home
whatever time I come home where were you
not your business I'm home right that
that kind of respect that a kid will
have but a father if you have fear
respect and love that boy has the
highest likelihood of doing something
big with his life our current incentive
program in America our current tax
system in America doesn't reward husband
and wives having kids together that
decreases the chances of a boy being
raised by a father what does it do
produces Reckless criminals produces
kids that don't have order produces kids
that think they can do whatever they
want to do and essentially they become
net negative to society so you ask me
the question I would say yes but it's a
multi-dimensional answer yeah so when I
think about what it takes to form a
strong man in a time where the thought
of power itself is considered negative
so this would be now
23 24 years ago I created a domain
called seeking power and I remember
telling people about in the beginning
and there was just sort of an intuitive
oh yeah I get it that's cool but
somewhere over time that became like oh
power like that's such a gross thing
it's almost disgusting to want power I
was caught so off guard by that because
I had my head down I was building
something and I was building things in a
way that absolutely required aggression
and power and when I look at people that
want to do something big in their lives
that aren't able to generate power
they're not a able to tap into
aggression I'm like you're not going to
be able to do the things you want to do
you're going to have a sense of internal
weakness um a sense of frustration not
knowing how to make the things come true
in your life that you want to and then
if you layer on top of that a victim
mentality and somebody tells you no no
no the problem is that somebody's
holding you back or whatever you
suddenly have a story for why you feel
the way you
feel but it's not the true story and so
to me that creates this like death SP of
for forget like I'm not doing it as like
a keep off my lawn thing but I'm really
mortified by what is being pushed as
like this is what we should aspire to
and reading your book was really
interesting because your book isn't
about how to make strong men but the
tactics of getting successful at
building a business and obviously it's
more Nuance than just building a
business but is an easy way to talk
about it um you basically spend 300
Pages talking about how to cultivate
capture and use aggression so walk me
through what what is the trick that
people are missing one do they need to
uh understand power Revere power what is
power you ever read the book power
versus Force I'm I'm certain you've read
the book okay power versus force a guy
like you good luck putting it down it's
it's it's written for a guy like you so
the author David Schwarz talks about
different levels we go to where we
calibrate at the bottom whatever these
eight levels are you're trying to force
life and then the next levels you
actually start gaining power you start
becoming powerful right so at the bottom
the lowest level of calibration he talks
about is shame then it's guilt apathy
fear anger Pride desire like I desire
drugs alcohol stuff like that first
level of Consciousness that you start
gaining power and control of your life
is courage you have the courage to be
wrong you have the courage to fail you
have the courage to talk to people you
disagree with courage then it goes
willingness then it goes acceptance then
it goes neutrality like I can stay
neutral like you have a very high score
if you look at the book your score is
going to be high because you have
courage you're willing you're able to
stay neutral and process both sides of
the story acceptance then it goes to
love joy peace Enlightenment and
Enlightenment there's only been two or
three they put at that level this is
when you talk about Jesus
people like that in regards to the
aggression you're talking about or the
the power why should somebody have you
know fight for the power or how to go
about getting the power it it it all
comes back down to what level of a life
you want to live
okay I'm having a conversation with this
guy and I said do you believe in God he
says no I don't believe in God I said
okay so what is God everybody has a god
it doesn't matter who you are you got a
God no I don't yeah you do no I don't I
don't I don't have a god oh really no
why are you building a YouTube channel
with 4 million subscribers this the guy
I'm talking to you know who he is he why
are you building something like this
what what are you trying to get what are
you seeking maybe your God is data for
some people God is sex for some people
God is porn for some people got us drugs
or attention or whatever it may be right
power is a similar way as well you know
years ago Phil donu is interviewing
Milton fredman this we're talking 50
years ago this is in the 70s 7478 he's
wearing a yellow if you put it I think
it's like 43 minutes and Phil danu who
at the time was a socialist you know he
kind of came from that side he says so
why do you think you know what do you
think is the problem with all these
greedy people in
America and Milton fredman smiles and he
says it's always the other fellow that's
greedy right you're not greedy at all
he's saying to him he said oh we're
definitely not greedy here it's always
the other person right everybody's
greedy everybody's selfish
everybody wants power everybody you know
wants to get a certain level of
attention everybody wants to win
everybody wants affirmation to be
affirmed and say you know what you're a
leader you're a CEO you're a rockstar
you're this we want that that is a form
of us being almost proud of ourselves
that our existence was worth it
everyone's going through this journey
how you go about it is trying to
question everything you know I remember
this whole concept of selfish now that
guy selfish that guy is selfish and then
you'd say I'm not selfish and you would
fight it you know what you got lucky I
didn't get lucky you don't know how hard
I work to be this and then eventually
I'm like I'll dance with you you got
lucky I agree you're selfish
yeah you don't have anything to say
because everybody is selfish everybody
wants to be lucky I don't mind being
lucky but here's what happened in the
book there's a section where we talk
about the selfish selfless score right
what percentage of you is selfish and
what percentage of you are selfless so
we had a a focus group that we did and
we're asking a group we said the what is
a person who's a 100%
selfless 0% selfish look like and what
is a person who is a 100% selfish 0%
look like then who is actually more of a
net positive to soci Society you know
what conclusion we came with the person
that's selfless probably smells doesn't
take care of themselves they don't care
about themselves they don't wear nice
clothes they don't eat good food they
don't take care of themselves
everything's about other people it's in
a state of Conformity and the other
person that's selfish 100% probably
doesn't make a good friend probably
doesn't make a good spouse but they
probably look good they probably smell
good they probably make good money they
probably eat good food they probably
find a way to win do you want that
person as your CEO no do you want that
person as your husband or your wife no
do you want that person as your
president absolutely no but guess what
individually just for the sake of
selfishly not embarrassing themselves
they're going to do things because it's
all about them so then we broke it down
and we said what level of calibration is
good to be a SE over company okay do do
you need a 3070 30% selfish 70% selfless
well no that's bad why because we need
you to have Big Dreams we need you to be
pursuing something we need you to be
after something if you're not pursuing
something why are you coming to work
early why are you spending the weekend
thinking about ideas you're not going to
be thinking about that somebody's
driving by the freeway the average
person's like oh nice thing right there
you're going to be like babe can you
pull over let me go in there oh I just
got an idea think about it look at it
from this angle what if we did this to
the company and what if we brought this
product let's walk inside and see what
this building looks like cuz you're
constantly thinking about getting
getting closer to the vision that you
have so we learn the profile of somebody
that is at the right scoring to be a
leader is 7030 70% selfish desires
you're going after Vision who you want
to be the life you want to build then
30% is selfless that person makes for a
good father that person makes for a good
husband that person makes for a good
leader that person inspires others to go
that person challenges others that
person's not going to get too content
too comfortable so as we're talking
about aggression or hour or or any of
that stuff you know somebody may be
listening to this and they're going to
say man you are not my cup of tea
totally get it I'm not for everybody but
the right person watching this they're
going to be like that makes a lot of
sense I've never seen selfishness
explained that way before that makes a
lot of sense I've never heard Milton
Freedman explaining greed that way
before that makes a lot of sense about
power okay let me find a way for me to
become a net positive to society and
then you kind of go through that process
but we got a lot of words that we have a
hard time with because somebody told us
it's a bad word you know be powerful
have power be selfish you know greed no
no no I don't ever want to have any of
those and I don't want to be lucky when
you break it down and you actually look
at it people who ended up winning at the
highest level they got lucky they seek
power they had selfish desires they were
greedy ended up having a life that they
had and they were more of a positive to
society than people who didn't have
those four things they also inspire
people there's to me I think what all
this ultimately boils down to is nobody
and I mean nobody wants to feel out of
control and once you understand that to
gain control of your life you must have
at least Power by my definition so my
quick way of defining power is close
your eyes imagine a world better than
this one open your eyes and go gain the
skill set necessary to actually make
that world come true and so it's really
a battle to get better at something that
matters to you and serves yourself for
sure but also other people and if you
live in that Pursuit you will very
quickly realize that you are up against
the world's tendency to move towards
chaos now people hate it when I frame it
in that this is just the second law of
Thermodynamics the world moves towards
chaos that just is true it's entropy but
I guess because it has a weird word
attached to it people don't really stop
to think about it but if you're trying
to be an entrepreneur I will tell you
there are two enemies that you're going
to face your own mind and entropy and
entropy as represented by uh your wife
Falls ill at the worst possible time
when you have a major
presentation um you have a competitor
that's trying to take you out you get
sued by somebody uh in a moment of
fragility whatever like there is going
to be a Litany of problems every day is
like getting kicked in the face and in
those moments the only way to persevere
is with a level of ferocity like you
have to be able to push through those
storms to inject enough energy into the
system that that you can bring order to
an otherwise chaotic system and move it
in the exact direction that you want it
to go but to do that you really have to
be able to get aggressive that's the the
kindest word I will give to it you're
very unabashed about talking about I'm
using my own words but talking about
aggression in your book what I call the
dark energy um one do you agree that the
reason that you the reason that I would
want men anybody listening to this any
man certainly out there anybody that's
training you to um you should have a
gear that is soft you should be able to
be gentle I'm not trying to create um
people that that only have one gear but
one of your gears should be aggression
Focus determination the ability to run
through a wall to ensure that something
gets done that will not happen by
accident you absolutely going to have to
make that a value turn that value into a
set of skills courage being one of them
and then pushing yourself forward in a
very specific way towards a very
specific aim do you agree with that need
or am I miss I love the way you put it I
love the way you put it so the keyw here
we use is business planning for the
audacious few right audacious few
audacious few it's not for everybody
it's the audacious few for example when
you break down who you want to be on
life okay I don't know if you're a
sports guy or not you watch a sports
team there's a guy that's just a support
cast that's what he does that's the role
he's going to play there's a guy that is
coming off the bench and he does what he
does then there's a guy that's the flag
carrier to the best guy okay each team's
got a flag carrier in a lot of places
there was this player named Paul George
he runs a podcast with uh one of my good
friend Dudley Rutherford son Dallas they
do a very good job together and they
interview other uh uh basketball players
and he said something so powerful in one
of the podcasts he says look it took me
years to realize I can't win a
championship as a number one he says
I've been the best player on a team I
can win a championship as a number one I
can win a championship as a two and a
three but I can't win as a one guess
what he realized he has to be a flag
carrier he's not a one this week I had
Ronda santis on the podcast Governor
Ronda santis right did you watch the
whole thing because it's a pretty uh uh
fiery podcast that caused you have so
much content now that uh well and ended
up causing the number two trending
hashtag for end up arguing cuz the part
I saw you guys were very cordial we we
didn't end up arguing but I asked him a
couple tough questions about marketing
his boots and all this other stuff and a
video of him Trump anyways it was it was
a bunch of different things we talked
about but when I'm talking to uh the
stist I asked him the following question
I said I think there's two different
types of
presidents and he says what type I said
one is Alphas y Lincoln is the alpha
ulysis ESR is the flag carrier he became
a two-term president not a great
president but he was not an alpha okay
he needed Lincoln to be the flag carrier
too Ike Alpha Nixon he was a flag
carrier johnf Kennedy Alpha LBJ took him
out he became president allegedly you
got Reagan Alpha okay senior is a flag
carrier you got Obama Alpha Bill Clinton
Alpha those two are alphas Trump Alpha
George Bush the son flag carrier father
lineage Prescott
then you have Biden today he's a flag
carrier he his way of becoming a
president was Obama you're the greatest
you're the best you're this you're that
boom this is your opportunity for being
loyal to me now I will come work for you
you become the president right I asked
Governor descent is do you think you're
the alpha or a flag carrier okay now his
answer could be whatever he thinks it is
but the Market's going to determine
whether he's an alpha or he's a flag
carrier so what do you think he said
Alpha well technically he said I'm a
and by the way you may be an alpha in a
room of 50 you may be an alpha in a
company of a thousand you may be the
alpha in a company of 100,000 you may be
the alpha in a state of 30 million but
you may not be the alpha in a country of
340 million Alphas have levels and it
depends what level of an alpha you can
be and that's very tough to swallow for
everybody it's not for everybody and why
is that here's why you said something
very interesting you used a couple words
and you said you know two reasons
business all this stuff you know your
wife gets sick and you're going to an
appointment what do you do with
that there is no manual that says hey
when your wife gets cancer 19 steps on
what to do next there is no such thing
as that your your son just went through
this here's eight steps one there is no
manual for that in life and by the way
the people who went through those
situations like a I recommended this
book recently I've read the book 2008
when it first came out uh by the coach
of Indi Indianapolis CTS uh the book is
called quiet strength Tony dunie okay I
don't know if you know the story or not
he's
coaching the weekend of Super Bowl he's
about to win his first Super Bowl ever
okay his son dies at 23 years old oh
Jesus his son dies at 23 24 years
old there isn't a single person in the
world that's expecting this guy to be
there on Sunday to coach if he didn't
what would you and I say we wouldn't
judge him dude what are you talking
about totally get it this guy chooses to
show up to the game with a smile on his
face he says cuz I believe he's in a
better place he's with God right now I'm
at peace they win the game I got the
chills all over my body he writes this
book quiet strength Incredible Book I
remember I heard this guy speak gave a
talk when he came out
and go explain that to somebody and say
hey you should go coach nobody has the
per permission to tell anybody to go
coach that's the individual's level of
handling chaos pressure pain and
everyone's different in that there's not
a manual for that however where where
I'm going with this on the alpha side is
if you want to be the guy of the guys of
other
guys you can't go by the standard as
everybody else does for example um World
War II is taking place okay Chamberlain
is doing what he's doing UK
the most hated guy in that country is a
journalist who talks [__] about
everybody okay who Chamberlain hates
disgusted by him very arrogant very
cocky pompous sometimes if Twitter was
around when Churchill was around he'd be
on Twitter all the time that kind of a
guy he had an opinion about everybody
and he was only 56 you know what
Chamberlin has to do he has to beg
Churchill to show up Churchill shows up
the only man that was able to face the
most feared man in the world was
Churchill Churchill maybe the reason why
we're doing this interview in English
and not in German today think about the
power of that however the chills this
guy Churchill that we're talking about
was hated but he was a wartime
leader when War took place everybody had
to call the person they hate the most
cuz they they knew they were not cut for
that job it's not for them so there's
the levels of alpha there's a levels of
success you want in life there's a
reason why Jordan said you know if you
don't want to play you know but I'm
going to win in the last St and he
starts crying you know you're like dude
I can see this guy's fire that's why
there's only one mic that's why we were
all glued to the screen for five weeks
on Sundays watching two episodes from 8
to 10:00 and we were all blown away by
how this guy was a wired but who got
pissed off afterwards Scotti Pippen and
then Scotty writes a book and in the
interview he's being asked Scotty how do
you want to be remembered and he's got a
smirk on his face he says I want to be
remembered as the greatest of all time
dude you're not a greatest of all time
you're top 50 see he forgot he was a
flag carrier and he wanted the respect
of this guy to have the respect of this
guy is not duplicatable that's a lot of
effort so for somebody watching this
again choose your enemies wisely but
it's business planning for the audacious
view not the timid majority it's not for
everybody this is for the audacious view
if you feel you're part of the audacious
View this book's for you if not it's not
for
everybody you can reboot your life your
health even your career anything you
want all you need is discipline I can
teach you the tactics that I learned
while growing a billion- Dollar business
that will allow you to see your goals
through if you want better health
stronger relationships a more successful
career any of that is possible with the
mindset and business programs in Impact
Theory University join the thousands of
students who have already accomplished
amazing things tap now for a free trial
and get get started
today this is admittedly meant to be
inflammatory but I care so much about
the answer to this that I like the
inflammatory nature of the following
question what should a real man be like
I believe there are a set of things that
I am perfectly comfortable laying out
saying this is what I think what should
a real man be like what are the
qualifications what should a real man be
like um
you know uh for me I had a man Monty he
would say something he would say you
know your house every 90 days you should
you know they should feel the fire but
not enough to burn a house down but
every 90 days your kids should see what
you're capable of okay where they're
like ooh I just saw that sight of Dad
okay and his reference was with your
people your you're working with with
your salese now today God forbid you say
this on half po they're going to say you
have mental issues okay you need to go
to therapy you need to go hire Jack
Nicholson to go through a real life of
anger management and you're Adam Sandler
and you know you have issues you have
you have anger issues but there there
needs to be a certain level of fear and
respect where a man imposes but you
don't have to use you know the reason
why they call it a great equalizer the
gun is because you knew I had it but
that doesn't mean I use it what's the
whole purpose of Jiu-Jitsu or martial
arts is for the other person to know
look bro you just don't want to fight
that's all there is to it I have no
desire to fight you but if we do fight
it's going to be very bad there's this
video on on uh uh Tik Tok and Instagram
that went viral and his father is
outside this guy's punking his daughter
every time he walks by he says bro
what's wrong with you what's the matter
with you and the guy's swinging he says
don't do this I don't want to do this to
you he starts swinging he said I'm
telling you I'm telling you again don't
do this I'm going to hurt you the last
time he does the dad picks him up drops
him to the ground drops him grabs his
hands doesn't punch him one time he said
how many times did I tell you don't do
this I know what I'm doing cops come
take him and go away
right the
marketplace should know what you're
capable of now to get to that point
takes a while when you're a kid when I
talk to my kids and we talk about the
values and principles we have where we
lead respect and proov love we don't get
bullied and we don't bully that's our
principles that we have um my son knows
the market today for him is the school
he goes to the school just needs to know
what you're capable of one time
marketing is going to do its part
everyone's going to talk to each other
you don't need to do it 50 times you
don't need to do it 100 times you need
to do it one time once they know the
other people are like you know what not
the biggest guy but I just don't want to
mess with that guy cuz he's annoying
he's going to keep fighting you leave
that guy alone let me pick on this guy
right and then that guy's job is to do
the same thing so from that perspective
um I think it's good to have a
reputation the
marketplace uh I think it's good to have
a reputation within your family where
your spouse feels protected by you when
we got married at our wedding at the end
of the wedding uh everybody's hammered
everybody's drunk and I got up to give a
speech I said I got a couple things I
want to talk to you guys about there 500
people at the winning I said one uh I
don't know how long we're going to be
married we're going to take you one year
out a time but if we take a one year at
a time maybe we'll make it I can tell
you guys all right now I think we can
make it for one year every year we've
taken a one year at a time we're at the
14th year we just crossed 14th year okay
two I said if you come to my wife at any
time without us telling you if my wife
is pregnant you will never see us again
it's none of your business you go
through me and you don't ask her that
question cuz you don't get to put that
kind of pressure under my wife and say
you guys are not getting pregnant are
you sick are you is it him is his thing
not working is your thing not working
don't ask me that question because
you'll never see us and I'm being I have
some levity while I'm saying this where
it's not like I'm being a drill sergeant
talking to everybody but it's a way of
manageing expectation where my wife
feels safe to know you know what we're
going to be okay I think if you ask that
from the man's standpoint there's an
element to it as a husband there's
element to it as a father there's an
element to it as a son to protect your
father there's an element to it as a
brother to make sure Nobody messes with
your siblings then there's an element to
it when you become a CO of a company to
know that you're a formidable guide that
people are not going to bully your
company and if they do you're going to
have their backs you're going to stand
up in politics eventually you get to a
point where if you become a
president fortunately one of the biggest
problems we' got in America right now is
those three components that I talked
about love fear respect love fear
respect if a father has all those threes
you're
Trifecta if if you if you are loved and
you know how to love if you know how to
impose the right amount of fear and if
you are respected you have to make sure
that that makes for the best cocktail of
parenting and leadership as a president
as a president if the enemy fears you if
the enemy respects you it doesn't matter
if they love you but if they fear and
respect you chaos are down we have a
president today unfortunately that's not
feared that's not respected and is not
loved what happens worldwide chaos when
you have leaders at the time at the top
leading the way as the number one alpha
and there's not fear respect and
love catastrophic situation you're in
and that happens in marriages companies
parenting parenting as well as
countries that to me is the important
button so the reason that I think that
this all matters the reason I think that
men ought and I use the word ought on
purpose I think you and I actually
Define ought differently to me it it is
the moral standard so when I say A man
ought to do something I believe he has a
moral obligation to do that so so men
ought to be strong now my favorite
definition uh which was really close to
something you were saying um is Jordan
Peterson's definition of the meek he
said he was reading all this biblical
scholarship obviously in the Bible it
says the meek shall inherit the earth
and he was like this doesn't make sense
if you read Meek as weak he was like
there's no way weak people will never
inherit the earth and he just knows that
the Dynamics of Power are such that the
powerful are always going to rule
there's quote I forget who said it but
the powerful will do as they will the
weak will suffer as they must and that
is the natural Order of Things Society
is designed to keep that from being the
thing but certainly in a natural
environment the lion is going to eat the
gazelle because the Gail simply can't
stop it from doing it uh so when you get
in an environment and you remove some of
the niceties of civilization such as you
know when we're recording this there is
multiple one outright War another one
that's certainly threatening to become
an outright war and you begin to realize
very quickly that to your point a lot of
the the posturing matters how people
perceive the other people matters a lot
it's a big part of the equation so
Peterson's thing he's looking at this
he's like the the meek are never going
to inherit the earth people have to
believe that you're strong and he said
he found an ancient Greek reading of the
word meek and it meant effectively
uh somebody who is strong enough to use
a sword but they keep it
sheathed and that to me is brilliant you
want to get so good at defending
yourself intellectually physically
emotionally whatever the moment calls
for that you can stay calm navigate the
situation well because you know the
power is there if you need it there's a
an idea with animals called nervous
aggressive when people say that somebody
has a loud bark but no bite that that's
nervous aggressive they don't actually
think they can win in the fight and so
they try to throw up the smoke screen of
making all this noise uh Jay-Z has a
line something like uh they talk as loud
as a motorbike but wouldn't bust a grape
in a fruit fight um food fight probably
uh anyway you get the idea so that makes
a lot of sense to me that the real power
is because it's not enough just to be
strong it's not enough to be violent you
really do have to be able to calculate
it I saw the interview with Jared
Kushner on Lex fredman and Kushner said
um that Trump always liked to leave
people with a 10% chance that he might
nuke them which is horrible I say it
with a smirk because I get the
Showmanship of it but there is something
to the unpredictability the know the
belief that that person is dangerous and
that it is merely strategy that keeps
them in check there is something to that
and at at that level to pretend that
that isn't real is to set yourself up
for disaster in fact I'd like to
introduce my favorite Thomas Soul quote
which my audience will have heard me say
a gazillion times the last 50
years have been marked by exchanging
what worked for what sounds good and
that feels like a lot of the policies a
lot of the ways that we talk about young
men toxic masculinity all of that is it
sounds nice it would be nice if we lived
in a world where everybody could just be
kind and gentle but we don't and so you
wear thin the armor of civilization when
you teach men to be
weak you know how in families there's
typically the one person everybody fears
and respects when they die there's chaos
and all of a sudden you know one person
is taking advantage of this person or
that person my my mother her her family
had some money the moment her parents
died uh one of her uh uh uh family
members took over all the money and he
abused everybody else he say you're not
going to get it I have it now but when
Mom and Dad were alive he couldn't do
that the moment they died he bullied
everybody from the money that he got
that money was supposed to go to a few
people he took it all and he gave crumbs
to people and he became that dictator
you're lucky I'm giving you this kind of
money no no that was their money but
because the parents didn't put anything
on paper he stole it from everybody and
he could do that what's the moral of the
story when when that
Alpha when that leader is not present
bullies show up you know so so for us
again like this is a very chaotic time I
don't know when this is going to be
released you know whether it's one war
or the other war or this or that um
we're we're one or two people away of
being offended of World War II getting
started you know you got 16 million to
18 million people died World War I you
know 60 million on two third one if we
go at this trajectory could be 200
million J the the job that we have
collectively is to try to do whatever we
can to turn down the temperature not
increase it you know if if you and your
wife get into an argument and you call
me and you say you won't believe what
she said my job isn't to say she said
that Tom oh dude if she would have said
that to me it's done are you kidding me
doesn't she realize how amazing you are
how lucky she is to have you instead is
to say Tom come on bro she loves you and
you know you love her she's partly right
bro I'm G to take her side how could you
say something like that you're not on my
side you're on her side probably on this
one am but I'm telling you privately I'd
go back and try to make this work screw
you Pat totally get it bro let me know
if you want to talk later you get off
the phone I have a job and it's called
Doug diffuse unify and be the glue we
don't have a lot of Dougs around the
world today we have division today we
have divisiveness today so but if
there's that one strong personality
leader of the Free World a Churchill a
Reagan a person you don't want to mess
with the world is typically a safe place
yeah that is um it it is maybe a
balanced place where the level of danger
that is always ready to pop off is
currently held at Bay um but I think the
the reason that that Cycle Works where
strong men make good times good times
make weak men so on and so forth works
is because when things are good the seed
of its own instability is present
because of that Loop and I don't know
that there's any way to escape it it's
one of the things that makes so
predictable I agree now Church Hill is a
fascinating character in fact this will
be fun because I never get anybody that
can talk about Church Hill I absolutely
am just blown away by Churchill and you
can say what you want and did he have
his flaws of course he did but but this
is a guy that felt he had let his
country down in a uh
military this is World War I uh he makes
a mistake leading the Navy and he says
okay I know exactly how to come back
from this I'm going to even though he
could have just gone back to England he
says no put me on the front line and so
he goes to the front line and he said
other people didn't want to walk with
him on the night patrols because he
would just talk out loud and they're
like bro we're going to get shot like
what are you doing
and he he uh said to his mother I have
such a need to earn a reputation for
physical courage that I'll basically do
anything and so he stays in the front
line multiple times narrow narrowly
escapes getting killed sees countless
people die around him and said to
himself okay now after I forget how long
but it was a long time again all
voluntary uh he's like now I've earned
my way back to Parliament and he goes
goes back to England and re-engages in
government life and I just thought whoa
like I'm not even saying I could do it
but I am saying I admire it and I'm
saying that men ought to have that kind
of courage and that to me we've had 70
years where we really on our own soil
where we have not had to face um
violence and danger I'm not taking
anything away from the men and women
that have served um overseas obviously
but there's something that still let our
country's psyche be lulled into the
sense that we don't need men standing on
the wall protecting us and that worries
me military meaning we don't need a
military yeah basically I mean so uh I
was quoting the uh line from A Few Good
Men where he's like men like me and the
thing is I hope what we were supposed to
take away from that is that he's a
complicated character and yes some of
the things he did were just despicable
but he's also right and that's what
keeps him from being a caricature is you
you are asking people to risk being shot
you're asking them to kill other people
I mean it it is horrific horrific
and there
is there is an evolutionary seed inside
certainly inside the male brain that
makes that very possible you know if if
there's anything like any man that wants
to earn forget about you know should I
go become rich should I go have a
six-pack should I be in shape should I
do this if you pursue anything if you
earn moral
Authority you you're going to have a lot
of
self-respect you'll have self-respect in
a way you lead your wife and your kids
you'll have self-respect in the
companies you lead and you'll have
self-respect in a community does this
mean you're going to be a billionaire
not necessarily does it mean you're
going to be a millionaire not
necessarily
but if you earn the right and you have
that moral Authority there's something
to earning that that takes years that
doesn't happen overnight when you're
telling the story with Churchill there's
something to it there's something to you
know a guy setting the pace from the
front there's something to earning the
right you know there's something to this
is why for me with the voting system
that we have I think our voting system
is totally screwed up in America couple
areas of it I'm not a fan of it because
for me I I would much rather have a
16-year-old kid who has a job working at
McDonald's who made 20 grand last year
and paid $3,000 in taxes I want him to
vote over the 25y old bum living with
his mom and dad not going to school not
getting a degree not doing anything for
him to vote I don't want this guy to
vote I want to hear from this 16y old
kid let this guy vote our system is too
much of yeah here you go yeah here you
go now earn the right to vote why don't
you earn the right to vote well just by
being a an American don't I earned the
right to votee I totally get it but you
got to have some you know pull your
little red wagon how are you going to
contribute to society well that you're
discriminating against dude I'm from
Iran I was born in Iran half Armenian
half ayrian I'm a 1.8 GPA kid I'm a
welfare kid I'm not a kid that came up
here was going to be something but I
wanted to come back and earn the right
to say hey I want to earn this respect
that America gave to me I want to go do
my part I think we have to go more
towards that in our house our kids you
you know everybody's talking right now
about having a phone I don't know how
many articles I've read that the more
you delay your kids getting a phone the
more happier they're going to be by the
way parents if you're watching this do
yourself a favor and go watch the movie
disconnect disconnect I I don't have a
phone to see who's the actor but one of
the guys is the I don't know if you've
seen this movie or not disconnect is
baitman what's his name is it Jason
baitman is that his first name certainly
is so the guy is that from Horrible
Bosses okay so that guy this movie
disconnect is a story about a boy who 12
13 14 year old kid goes to school
there's a girl he likes these two
bullies knows he likes the girl they
create a Facebook profile with the
girl's picture befriend everybody in
high school thinking that's the girl but
it's not she DMS him on Facebook in the
movie this is 11 years ago 2012 and says
hey please don't tell anybody but I
really like you I'm shy I don't want to
tell others but I like the way you're oh
my god I've Loved You D and they're
going back and forth she says I'll show
you mine if I if you show me yours but
it's the two boys so the boy send a
picture of somebody else they got from a
porn side he opens it so he sends it and
then she says but I want to see your
face in it as well so he does the next
day he goes to school everybody's
laughing at him because those two
bullies took the picture spread it
around the school then the boy runs away
comes home is in his room listening to
heavy metal music is trying to hang
himself daughter sister walks in
prevents it from happening and saves his
life and then had to figure out how this
happened because the parents weren't
involved there's so many different
things going right now in society that
we we have to we have to be aware of
people earning stuff phones are
dangerous today that you know kids are
picking up on what can happen to them if
you do you have to educate them if you
do you have to hold them account if you
do you have to watch and see what's
going on but in our family um everything
starts with earning uh the currency in
our house I've talked about this God
knows how many times is reading you read
you earn the right the more you read the
more you can ask for if your grades are
solid you get to ask for more if it's
not you don't and people say Pat how
could you have standards like that when
you had a 1 Point GPA what does that
have to do with anything I didn't have
those standards I simply grew up in a
house that nobody cared what my grades
were there there was never an
expectation of me doing anything my
grade so guess what I'm going to rise up
to the standards of whatever whatever it
is as a 14 15 16y old there was no
standards so I was left alone in our
house there is standards there is
expectations you got to perform to it
you do you get more so America started
off as
earning we got away from that because
earn is now another one of these curse
words that people don't like to talk
about how could you say something like
that how could you say something like
that all you care about is money all you
care about is this no man I cared about
you being proud of the contribution
you're making to society because the
more proud you are of the contribution
you're making to society the safer the
place is going to be the less you
contribute to society the more bitter
you're going to be feeling like
everybody owes you something and then
you could do something very bad to
everybody else so yes I think we need to
go back to earning like when you're
telling the story of Churchill to have
that moral Authority it's very
interesting to me there's something
super telling in the fact that people
ask you well whoa whoa whoa how can you
ask them to keep their grades up when
you didn't keep your grades up cuz that
reveals their value system now I have a
feeling that they value system they've
never taken the time to lay it out and I
think one of the biggest problems when I
think about okay what's ailing men how
do we get them back on track it's what
is your value system what do you how do
you believe a man ought to be write it
out then at least we have something that
we can actually talk about when somebody
says how can you do that you didn't have
good grades what they're going for I
assume is fairness the second your
primary focus is on fairness now we have
a problem so the reality is of course
life isn't fair and I don't mean that in
any sort of cheeky way it's just if
you're trying to optimize for fairness
you're setting people up to try to say
uh the game is always going to be
controlled go out there you're going to
be fine and then they're going to get
into a fight and I don't mean a literal
fight but they're going to get into a
fight for their business a fight for a
promotion whatever and it isn't going to
play out fairly and if in that moment
they're emotionally devastated because
they've been taught that everything
revolves around fairness they're going
to be in trouble if on the other hand we
and this is very specifically what Tom
bil you wants people optimizing for
what is effective so you have to have a
goal you have to know what your goal is
what am I aiming at and then you're
going to judge everything by whether or
not it's effective did it actually get
me towards my goal now I'm going to
assume that your goal is Honorable if
it's not then we already have a problem
but assuming that your goal is Honorable
now you can just is believing this doing
this whatever is it going to move me
towards my goal if yes I'm going to do
it if not then I'm not do you know
Jeffrey Canada oh Jesus I've got to meet
somebody that can help me get this guy
on the show I've been trying and trying
and trying and I have no idea that he
will agree with me on anything
however he has created the most
effective school for kids so he uh he
will go into an underserved area and in
the same building that the school is
already being run at and they're
delivering kids that are like three
years Below in reading and graduating
levels just absolutely atrocious he'll
go into the same building with the same
kids ran randomly select students so
it's not even like a merit based
anything randomly select students and
then put them into a merit based school
system and now it's like are you
following our discipline rules are you
doing your homework are you getting your
grades like all of that and if you do
you stay and if you don't you're out
dude the outcome by being regimented by
being disciplined by saying you are
going to live up to these standards and
of course I'm sure they do it in a way
that gets the kids [__] excited the
kids aren't like oh man like I have to
pay ention it's like hey if you learn
this stuff you can control your life you
can get out of this neighborhood you can
go on to do whatever the hell you want
and that kind of because again I I need
to interview this guy to make sure my
breakdown can Jeffrey Canada to make
sure my understanding of what he's done
is accurate but from what I can tell a
big part of what he's doing is Sid
stepping the um the unions and so if
he's got a bad teacher bye like you have
to be good you have to be performant and
so they just churn out graduates at like
an insane rate it it's startling and
remember these are the same kids that
before they got moved in were failing
just abject failures they do it in the
same building it's absolutely bananas
and that to me says especially at that
age structure discipline the right value
set and helping people tap
into um I I have no reason to believe he
would use these words these are now my
words and my interpretation of this that
when you can show somebody how to
generate ferocity in a controlled manner
oo now you've got something now you've
got something but most people can't find
that
gear growing a business is hard and if
you're in the thick of it you know that
as your business grows new challenges
will be coming at you from every
conceivable angle manual processes are
multiplying and there is no one source
for up-to-date data 36,000 that is the
number of businesses which have upgraded
to netsuite borle netsuite is the number
one Cloud Financial system streamlining
accounting financial management
inventory HR and more so you get a
customized solution for all your kpis in
one efficient system with one source of
Truth manage risk get reliable forecasts
and improve your margins right now you
can download Nets sues popular kpi
checklist designed to give you
consistently excellent performance
absolutely free at netsuite.com
Theory that's netsuite.com
Theory to get your own kpi checklist
netsuite.com
SL
Theory yeah that's pretty wild but at
the same time I'm not surprised right
I'm not surprised where a you know Bill
Walton who's a hippie goes into a system
that they have with UCLA and he comes in
with his beard and his long hair and he
says hey uh John Wooden says uh go get a
haircut and then come back you got to
shave your beard and you got to cut your
hair or else you're not playing he said
I'm not getting a haircut no problem you
ain't playing he said what are you
talking about listen kid I know you're
the number one pick in the country today
cuz you're the best center in America
today you're not going to play for this
team he says I got on my bike when I cut
my beard when I cut my here came back
and I think they ended up winning the
champion National Championship one or
two of them but when John Wooden died I
was at the Ronald Reagan Library in UCLA
I think it's one of those in in uh LA
and uh uh one of my friends Dudley
Rutherford is there and we're in the
waiting room we're having a conversation
I'm about to make a big decision in my
life this has got to be I could even
tell you the date it's got to be between
June to September of 2009 when raiken
died has to be around those when John
Wooden died and the uh uh no it's yeah
somewhere around that season anyways
maybe couple years after that so I'm
sitting there and I'm just watching
former UCLA players 67 68 69 showing up
coming down the elevator they're crying
leaving coming on the elevator they're
crying here's a man that impacted their
lives if you ever read books on him his
Pyramid of Success and things that he
did fascinating this guy lived up to 99
years old because of how many people's
lives he changed but
what we don't want as a young man as a
young boy that person that disciplining
us eventually ends up being exactly what
we want I'll give you one here depending
on the levels of audacity from the kid
I'm 18 years old I'm in the Army we're
just talking about the sound of flight
here and myself and three other kids
we're from New York La we're all acting
like we're tough guys we're not tough
guys but we're acting like we're tough
guys like that story you were talking
about earlier you use a certain phrase
that hey you know you know they're loud
but it's not really they're not going to
do anything we we're thinking we're
gangsters we're tough guys all this
stuff we're fighting each other in the
laundry room hitting each other all this
stuff we don't have a clue what we're
doing with fighting we just have a lot
of
testosterone but we're not listening to
this guy drw Sergeant Green one day he
asks us to get into the hve he I'm going
to take you guys to place get in there
we get in there no problem we're driving
to the back 40 30 minutes 40 minutes we
never been here before he goes into a
place it's not on a road cool pulls up
gets out it's not saying anything to us
picture a guy that moves slowly like
Bruce Lee okay think about when he's not
fighting he's just moving like that
takes his jacket off his bdus takes his
hats hat off takes his uh uh dog tag off
and he says who wants to go
first we're like what do you mean I so
who wants to go first I said Dr what are
you talking about
he says if we fight here no one will
ever know but we're going to fight who
wants to go first he's
5'8 okay we're all big
guys all right but we have no clue what
this guy's background is but he's very
confident so one by one by one we go in
there casually one by one by one he
beats the living [__] out of us except
he's got one rule doesn't hit us
anything up here everything is here
we're all on the ground begging him to
stop he took it to levels where he knew
we were going to be able to do pt the
next day but not to the point where the
Public's going to know what just took
place and then we're done he says okay
you sure you guys are tough guys no
drill sergeant you guys going to be good
moving forward yes drill sergeant you
guys are gangsters no Dr Sergeant we're
privates get in a hum let's go back we
got on a hum we went back let me tell
you I wish they would have recorded it
there's a picture of me standing next to
him um with me and my dad
you could tell in that picture who ran
the show you could tell who was the
alpha he was the alpha you know what
that 18-year-old kid needed that
18-year-old Patrick that's exactly what
he needed I needed order he was the
first guy I faced that I couldn't get
away with everything I was doing he
wasn't afraid of me he put me in my
place boys need that God knows how many
boys in know because let you say that
doesn't happen in my life we're not
having this conversation today let you
say I'm just like a regular guy I don't
get that discipline from somebody that
challenges me and he doesn't care from
parents got a divorce he doesn't care
where I'm from he has no sympathy for me
he's trying to lead me that's his job to
make sure soldiers are solid so when War
happens somebody like me is going to be
able to stand up to the enemy but today
that would never fly today he'd go to
jail today he'd be written about all
over the place today they would make a
movie about him and I would get a call
from Disney saying it's so unfortunate
that he discriminated against you that
you're Iranian Armenian Assyrian and
you're Brown that's why he did that we
should go sue the Army and we should
make a movie about this and turn him to
be a villain he was not a villain he was
a leader he he he made the world a
better place by checking me very quickly
at 18 years old so as you're telling
these stories and you're going through
Jeffrey Canada maybe his approach is a
different approach maybe he's not going
to use the approach that J sergeant
green used with us but at the same time
we need more people like I don't know
who he is I don't know his standards but
based on who you're telling me a guy
like that we need more men like that in
America yeah I'm with you so how do we
get going back in the right direction in
fact talk to me about the military so um
what's your confidence level in our
current
military you know there's certain
things that I talk to my boys about that
I don't want my wife
around and she doesn't want to be around
I said babe this is between me and them
you can't be here right now I got to
talk to these guys and I will talk to
them okay and she respects it and we do
our
thing um we got a couple rules in the
house I don't give the girls powpow they
don't get poww what are you say poww
poww that's what we call in our house
it's called pow pow they don't get
spanking they don't get anything the
boys it's a different story they don't
get it anymore but they know what can
come um and when I need to talk to these
boys to put them in their place I have
to have the conversation privately
what's the
point if you've never been in the
military if you've never been to
war you you have no understanding of
what it takes to prepare somebody to
defend you have no idea what it takes to
get somebody to defend you've never done
that before so what does it mean in war
when the other guy is trying to kill you
there is no hey man do you have your
mask on cuz Co it could spread hey
before we fight did you take the vaccine
cuz I can't fight you if you didn't take
the vaccine hey before we fight what's
your di score in
Russia what's what's the ESG score you
guys have you guys you guys good or cuz
we can't inappropriate hey what kind of
weapons you guys use are these going to
make the climate dirty the bomb how are
you not worried about the climate
how dare you have a weapon like this so
before you shoot us let's check to see
if that weapon you're using is climate
friendly did that doesn't exist when a
war takes place when a war takes place
the other guy has one thing in mind
either surrender or I'm killing you
that's what happens in war so how do you
psychologically prepare somebody for
that well maybe we should just prevent
people from going to war totally agree
I'm not for it I'm glad we didn't have
it for few years just all of a sudden
when we don't have fear respect and
admiration for leader in America we have
more Wars okay everybody thought the
last three years were going to be
friendly and peaceful and we were all
going to get along forget about us
getting along in America the world can't
get along the last three years right so
how do we get back to it we get back to
it by the following
manner you got 50 employees here give or
take uh based on what I what people told
me and you build a good business and
you're doing very well okay
how many times Tom matter of fact let me
ask a question a different way how many
people including Quest including all the
businesses you've ran how many people
have you
hired personally actual employees that
you personally have hired I've
interviewed 1500 people okay more now
because that's when I clocked that stat
it was like five years ago but so yeah
I've interviewed 1500 I've had 3,000
employees I was involved in hiring
probably 30% of them directly fantastic
you you were the COO or whatever role
you CM or Co I think one of those roles
last you told president okay so
president has one of the hardest jobs
cuz you're the COO and your your Ops
your data your all of that stuff okay
how many HR managers have you
interviewed oh
Jesus um interviewed probably 25 okay so
watch this how many have you hired or
have you had uh four okay so did you
ever have an experience when you
interviewed
a your first HR manager where the next
one this one didn't work it prompted you
to ask two additional questions on this
one that you didn't ask on this one and
on the third one you ask better
questions than the second one and on the
fourth one you ask better questions than
the third one right okay so first HR
manager I'm hiring it's like we just
need somebody to do the payroll you know
total you know all this stuff and you
know check GNA Insperity ADP who do we
use and $39,000 and do this and okay
great man I'm so glad we got somebody
handling all this payroll
and then hey we got a complaint here
401K benefits health insurance cost
going up is this good I don't know and
don't car right next one we need a
better one we need a better one we need
a better one and
co co happens we had a HR manager that
was reactive to everything and it's the
end of the world and it was causing
everything in the office to be chaotic I
said this is not going to work out so
I'm interviewing people and here's how
I'm interviewing people I say hey uh
Mary just out of curiosity
let's just say in our licensing
department we have 20 employees there
one of the employees comes to you and
says I got a cough and I'm not feeling
well you tell this person to do what go
get tested great they get tested they
come back it's positive what do you do
what are your next three moves oh send
everybody home okay I can't hire
you second person comes in and that just
that answer alone I already know you're
not fit for this job next thing I go
comes in licensing department has 20
employees one of the employees comes to
you they're coughing they're not feeling
well you send them and they get tested
positive what do you do what do I do
yeah here's what I do I send an email to
everybody in the company I tell them
such and such as Co if you like to leave
you can take a laptop and go home and
work okay great better answer but still
little bit too much third person comes
in for the interview hey licensing
department has 20 employees one person
comes to you they're coughing they get
tested positive what do you do um I ask
who in that department has been with
them if they have I tell them they can
go get
tested and then if that person's gone in
the kitchen I'd say who else was around
you when they were you know in the
kitchen or the bathroom such and such
have you shook anybody S I shook I'll go
to that person and tell them that and
ask them if they want to get tested they
can and then if they bring back negative
come back to work if not totally get it
okay reasonable we're hiring this person
so I started hiring people based on case
studies where am I going with this your
question is how do we go strong like we
used to because it's chaotic today
here's a point next time you're picking
a president think about your hiring
somebody for a job and ask better
questions one of the questions we need
to hire today when we wanting to pick
our president or our governor is how
they handle chaos based on what
experience not based on what they've
said based on what experience what have
they gotten done what's their biggest
accomplishment how have they helped the
economy what do you want as a president
do you want somebody that needs other
people's money when they go run for
office because the more people's money
you take and the more they give guess
what comes with that nobody gives $10
million and says what yo you know what
you don't owe me any favors but here's
10 million don't worry about doing
favors for me and your super pack I'll
give you $100 million but I don't want
any favors from you that doesn't work
that way they'll give $100 million and
there's three favors in the back and hey
you got to change his three laws to
prevent this guy from competing with me
any president that ever ran that needed
the least
money the people of power hated I'll
give you a list of these guys John F
Kennedy his father funded 50 40 or 50%
of the entire thing and then people
showed up a big number and by the way he
said I'm willing to spend 100% of it
when he became president who hated
Kennedy's it's a long list of people are
you kidding me the oil people you got
CIA you got Federal Reserve you want me
to keep going you know the story you're
a smart guys there a lot of people that
don't like that guy why cuz he didn't
take money from anybody that they needed
they knew he could do it on his own
Reagan his own financing okay you go
Trump his own financing you go Hillary
Clinton 100% other people's money Biden
nearly 100% of other people's money
that's a bit scary okay Kennedy was a
Democrat you know Trump is a republican
it's not like you're talking left or
right but maybe if like when when uh you
you probably know the story with Steve
Jobs when he started Apple when he
started Pixar right he put $7 million of
his own money into the company
okay we're having a meeting yesterday
with with Dana White at two-hour meeting
nice meeting and we're having a couple
other the conversations about what could
possibly happen business dealings all
this other stuff guy comes to you he
says Tom we want to raise $10 million
for this project we're working on you're
going to ask we're going to ask probably
the same questions 80% will be the same
question 20% is going to be different
but what do you want to know so far
who's the management team what's their
past what's their background what's
different about this what's their blue
ocean do they already have a technology
is there an MVP what kind of results do
you have how many transactions have you
like our app man we've done nearly
10,000 transactions 100,000 uh times
this app's been downloaded we have
Revenue in the seven figure Mark so we
have a number to look at it now I come
ask you for $10 million and you say okay
what are you going to do with the $10
million I tell you
or that $10 million I'm going to take
five off the table for myself and then
we're going to take the other five and
I'm going to give myself a $500,000 your
salary and we're going to pay this
person this and then the last 2 million
that's left we're going to put into
technology are you giv that $10 million
no now watch this what if I come to you
and I say uh Tom here's a product this
is our proof this is what we done this
is our leadership team here's our salary
we're paying ourselves right now the $10
million we raise from you and your Camp
I'm taking 0 salary I don't want any
salary nothing and I don't want to take
a penny off the table we're going to
take that money to put into technology
you're probably more open to the idea of
entertaining this and if I finish up
with the following thing and I tell you
by the way Tom I have put $6.8 million
of my own money into Manet you're not
going to say 6.8 doesn't even want to
take 6.8 right now of the money he put
into business he's willing to do it
later on he wants to put 100% in and he
doesn't want to salary and he doesn't
want to change a salary in the company
you're probably going to sit there and
say what's the risk for me there isn't
let's talk about it let's get lawyers
involved let's look at the deck let's
get deeper etc etc if a president comes
in and they're running and they say I'm
putting XYZ amount on my own money that
kind of gets my attention because you're
risking your own Capital as well we we
have to we have to start asking um what
do you have involved that you could lose
if this thing doesn't work out you know
as an investor we have to look at hiring
our president and our governors in that
way we've not been trained that way
we've been trained to just he's been 30
years in public service is that a good
thing or a bad thing well you know 30
years in public service we ought to give
him respect as a cop cool 30 years I get
it respect 30 years in the military
salute to you sir 30 years as a
firefighter that's a tough job you've
been 30 years as Congress what have you
done for the economy who's your funders
who's giving you money we have to ask
better questions now most people don't
want that conversation to be taking
place but I think our interview process
of whoever we pick that come with the
policies that's leading to the
catastrophes we're experiencing we have
to be a little bit more selective of the
presidents and the governors we
choose okay so that circles back around
to me so I'm not a society guy I don't
think at the level of society I think at
the level of the individual and if you
fix the individual then if you fix
enough individuals and suddenly you get
a society that's high functioning so to
me there's ultimately no difference
between um talking about what does an
individual person need to do and then
how do you ask better questions because
right now if you tell people to ask
better questions they still aren't going
to ask those questions even if you give
them the questions to ask they will not
understand how to interpret the answer
to me you have to build up what I call
frame of reference so we all view the
world from a certain frame of reference
and when you believe the world ought to
be fair when you believe that Equity is
the name of the game not a quality of
opportunity Equity that everybody gets
the same on the other side um then those
people are going to act a certain way
and they will feel right and they will
feel Justified because from their frame
of reference it all makes sense if money
is evil and everything has to be viewed
through the lens of power uh then all of
a sudden their actions make sense if you
have a different world view let's say
it's about Freedom capitalism
self-determination then you're going to
be viewing life through that lens um my
question
is is there a right lens that you are
like hey this is the thing that we ought
to put forth and this is what people
ought to pursue and I think the
downstream effects of that will be that
we elect better officials so on and so
forth let me let me ask this question so
let's let's have a little bit of a
banter here exchange I like this
a um what what causes a company to
attract tens meaning if you've read
Steven schwartzman's books book in it he
talks about how at one point 30 billion
Auto guy at one point he realized it's
all about hiring tens not nines not
eights but hiring tens but most people
can't afford tens when you read Reed
Hastings no rules rules they realize A10
is the equivalent of 28s okay one 10 is
the same as 28s sounds about right
sounds about right okay so what causes a
company to attract
tens you want me to give you the
breakdown I want to hear from you okay
so number one is going to be uh a
mission that is bigger than whatever
Mission they have in their own life that
they are very excited about next one is
going to be um that you're building
something that is novel and is actually
going to allow them to bring the full
weight of their talent and intelligence
to bear um so not retreading old stuff
this is really something new got it um
the world actually wants the
product uh they are compensated well
they have a sense of
ownership
autonomy um and they're surrounded by
other
tens okay so compensated well did you
say autonomy autonomy okay and then last
one was you're surrounded on other tens
yes okay I'm not going to ask you how
many tens you have here because I don't
want to cause a fight but uh uh we won't
go there surrounded by it isn't all tens
even team knows that so so so when you
look at this compelling Mission novel
you know full uh uh you know uh where
we're going what we're doing World
actually wants to Pro uh product
compensated well autonomy surrounded by
tents to me
um what is black don't do to get tens is
the mission that insane I don't know um
what is Netflix do to get
tens what what does Yahoo do to lose
tens to Facebook what does Facebook do
to lose tens to Google what what does um
what what what are tens attracted to to
me everything here you could have an
incredible Mission check you could have
novel man this is we're doing a really
big thing historic check World actually
wants the product check if the incentive
program sucks you're not attracting
those people period let me make go a
little bit deeper for you you live in
the great state of
California you know California how many
people they lost between California and
New York the last last year 1.4 million
1.4 million you saw the stat do you know
what state in America's 50th place for
the most people lost last year
California do you know what state's
number one uh Florida's number one
receiving net positive net positive
population growth Florida is number one
Texas Texas number two then you got
Carolinas this just came out by the way
very interesting number for you to look
at CU at the bottom is California New
York Illinois
okay the econom is bigger in
California the economy is bigger in New
York the econom is bigger in a lot of
different places why are they leaving
because the incentive sucks so if a
state with better incentives is in place
like Florida which means what you keep
your state taxes if in Texas you keep
your state taxes Tennessee keep your
state taxes we'll figure it out in
California why are gas prices in some
places seven bucks why are gas prices in
certain places five bucks six bucks you
got this gas tax on top of this gas tax
on top how come the other states don't
have the gas tax these are the incentive
programs why did one of of the biggest
liberals in America that try to save the
world you really want to talk about
climate change no one probably did more
good for climate change like Tred to do
good for climate change and a guy named
Elon Musk who voted for Obama who voted
for all these guys who voted for Hillary
and this guy moves to Austin Texas why
would he do that why did the guy who try
to legalize marijuana for the longest
time who said I'm voting for Bernie
Sanders what what is he doing moving to
Texas guy named Joe Rogan why did 40,000
employees leave Toyota go to Texas
because of the incentive program so
where am I going with this I you and I
are in the same place where everything
starts off with you and I like what do I
control what can I do about it right and
as you get to a different level I'm sure
you've paid a lot of taxes if I were to
ask you about how much taxes you paid
you paid a lot of taxes for the money
you've made you guys build a billion
Auto Company when you have a billion
auto company and you've taken money off
the table multiple times you know and
you're doing it in this state you could
have your capital gains 23.8 but you got
to add that 13.3 on top of it so on your
state you sell you get $200 million in
the state of California you're going to
pay roughly $80 million in taxes but you
do that in Florida or Texas you're going
to pay 60 million $50 million in taxes
that $30 million stays in your pocket
guess what that's pretty attractive
incentive wise what else when you look
at it you look at other people that want
to live as well the average person
that's making 60 Grand year in
California dude you have to live 80
miles away in Palmdale to be able to
make it and Palmdale's even getting
expensive today courts you got only a
couple Pockets you can live to be able
to survive with the kind of pay that
this uh Marketplace is paying you so
when I'm going back to the question and
you said well what percentage of people
are really going to be thinking about
that question this is the
problem that we have we think we have to
win everybody over we
don't we think we have to convert a 50%
of the population you don't it's the 12%
in the middle that run America that's
who runs America you got 47% that's
going to vote Democrat no matter what
you got 44% that's going to vote
Republican no matter what then you have
that middle whatever that number is
going to be that you're dealing with you
know maybe it's going to be 42 44 then
you got the Libertarians degree and all
this other stuff The Independents and
Libertarians rule America so if those
guys who have the ability to have
courage to have a change of thought and
are neutral neutrality and are willing
to accept alternative Solutions and
they're able to reason well guess what
they watch a podcast like this and say
[__] this makes a lot of sense we have
to change incentive so what do we do
either one you say that I have no desire
to get into politics so how can I help
okay no problem go back somebody up that
you can feel that they can do it and
start recruiting people to run you know
behind closed doors I'm recruiting
people to run like I'm talking to people
and saying you got a lot of values that
people would love I think you ought to
consider it really yes you ought to
consider it I never thought about that I
think you should think about that why
don't you read these three books see if
it does anything to you why don't you go
look at what the bushes and the
kennedies had as a legacy their legacy
was simple in their family you make
money first you take care of your wife
you take care of your uh kids they have
enough money to not have to worry about
anything they're set for school and all
that stuff you set yourself up a little
bit of retirement if you want to make a
little bit more money go for it but last
but not least you got to give back to
the country that give you this
incredible life how do you do it
nonprofit okay you either go into
politics or church but somehow some way
you got to contribute so I I want more
like I used to not care about politics
at all until I
realize America's problem is is the
incentive program the reason why we went
from 4% of kids being born to single
mothers in 1940 to 40% today is because
of the incentive program the reason why
we have so many divorces in the world we
are leading the world in divorces in
ways that doesn't even make any sense
we're at we're at 23 8 some numbers you
look at where China and India are at 3
or 4% our incentive program sucks when
you look at small business owners when
you look at people going out there
fighting for let's print more money
every time these guys print more money
guys like you get richer every time they
print money you and I make more money
because your money's in assets and your
money's in equities and that money is
going to go to these equities so the
valuation of these companies flips like
right now everybody's worried about a
market crash you know what's bigger than
a market crash today you know what
scares me more than a market crash today
a reverse market crash you know it's a
reverse market crash it's what happened
in Venezuela this year imagine stock
market goes from 10,000 to
64,000 what like right now we have
interest rates at four at 8% eight and a
quarter some places but let's just say
8% and and real estate prices are going
up it's the least amount of refi we've
done in 27 years refi application is at
the lowest for 27 years and the amount
of inventory of homes for sale right now
is the lowest we've had in 20 years but
real estate prices are going up how so
imagine if Powell today takes this 8%
and he brings it down to 7 to six to
five to four what happens market Dow
goes to 60,000 40,000 50,000 why it's
not because the economy is doing good
because we have that money in the market
it's going somewhere so what happens all
of these people that were talking about
well look at the rich getting rich and
the poor getting poor your policies are
printing more money
is causing the rich to get to richer and
the poor to get poor because the
disparity is getting wider if the rich
are making 12% on their money and the
poor are making zero because they have
in checking accounts what do you think
is going to happen every year that
distance going to get bigger and so what
do we have this year in 2023 most
strikes we've ever had you ever seen any
this many strikes in our lifetime we're
three years apart you and I I've never
seen this many strikes UAW strike
finally agreed 42 bucks an hour you got
UPS strike you got Walgreens CVS you got
Kaiser 75,000 you got there's so many
strikes going on today what are people
saying dude I can't make it I can't make
the money and in your state
California uh they rais the minimum wage
for fast food restaurants to whatever
the number is 22 bucks and you know what
Chipotle and McDonald's just announced
they're raising prices why because they
have to how are they going to make that
money you can raise minimum wage all you
want the restaurant is going to raise
the prices they're going to have to
raise the prices so now
all these automakers that are sitting
around saying oh you want us to pay
these guys 42 bucks an hour no problem
guess what the consumer is going to have
to pay $1,500 more for the car they buy
is the consumer okay with that cuz
that's how math Works math works that
way so to me at this phase of my life if
a person's 20 years old watching this
don't worry about what we talked about
last 20 minutes just go make your money
if a person's 30 years old watching this
and they got a wife and kid and their
careers like here they're about about to
kind of go focus on your career pay a
little bit attention to this but if
you're 40 plus 45 plus and you're seeing
what's really going on in the economy
and you're like what the hell are all
these policies I love my state of
Illinois but what the hell are we doing
here I love New York but what the hell
is going on New York I love San
Francisco but it's no longer San
Francisco then you have to pay very
close attention to the different
incentive programs in other states and
ask why can't we do that in California
why are we not doing that in New York
why are we not doing Illinois people in
California are not asking those
questions so uh I love this compelling
Mission novelty you know novel World
actually wants to product compensation
autonomy surrounded by tens but at the
basic most simplest thing is our
incentive program at the top of our US
Government today and by many states
absolutely
sucks it's interesting so um let's have
a collision of Visions here so I think
think that every word you said is true
it is necessary but not sufficient to
understand what's really happening so it
show me the incentives and I'll show you
the outcome so says uh Mr Munger and he
is correct when a system becomes
deranged so when you're talking about an
incentive program which I know you
leading sales teams have experienced the
madness that ensues when you get
something a little bit wrong in your
incentive structure and it incentivizes
terrible Behavior I've seen that up
close uh being in web 3 I've seen that
up close where suddenly people are
treating something that should be fun
like a
video treating something that should be
fun like it's a um roulette wheel or a
gambling machine and so for sure people
are going to find like whatever little
minuscule thing that they um Can exploit
but to me the key is to avoid deranging
the system as much as humanly possible
and the way that you avoid deranging the
system as much as humanly possible is to
give people values right now my big
problem is that people are not being
inculcated with values and I can't
believe I'm saying this because I am
like the least conservative guy on the
planet however I am so obsessed with
what [__] works like what what is the
outcome that you want if the outcome
that you want is the America that you
see or wherever in the world you are
okay great then whatever you're doing is
working for me this seems like uh as
close to a humanitarian crisis as you're
going to get in the west I mean when I
was a kid I really believed I could do
anything I set my mind to and because I
believe that I went and did it but if
you don't like I dude so I've worked in
the inner cities a lot
and the first time I heard a kid say uh
I was like why aren't you even trying
like bro you're so smart why aren't you
trying like why why are you here working
for minimum wage this is crazy I'll
teach you anything you want to know
about how to grow and climb up in the
world and he goes oh uh my mom told me
that the world doesn't want people that
look like me to succeed and I was like
so [__] what that's the worst advice
ever assume it's true assume it's true
assume everyone is against you now what
you're just going to take it you're just
going to take the first minimum wage job
on a line that you can get you're not
going to like push yourself you're not
going to again develop personal power
get so good at something we both love
Kobe you got to meet him and I did not
but he's got my favorite quote booze
don't block dunks you can get so good at
something that people can't stop you
even if they hate you even if they're
paid millions of dollars to be better
than you to stop you from doing a thing
this guy still scored 81 points by
himself in a single game okay in a game
where often 80 plus points is all that's
scored pure insanity and so if this is
why like I don't have kids
so the odds of me suffering from what I
can see coming are very low it is but a
love for Humanity that makes me want to
scream the whole idea of impact theory
is I really believe the ideas that you
believe about the world matters so much
they will control the quality of your
life and so now I'm just trying to make
sure that people get high quality ideas
about self-ownership about what you're
capable of about everybody should be
trying to build as much personal
strength as humanly possible so that
they can do the things that they want to
do in many different areas so getting
people to understand all 10 fingers of
responsibility should be pointed back at
you that if we want people to build a
society that is better they must believe
in a Grand Vision there must be a
mission to their life to the lives of
others that mission must have some tie
to measurable results results so that we
don't just do what feels good or sounds
good we do what actually works and so to
me there there is a massive
restructuring of the way that we think
about raising kids about the way
certainly my contribution is once you
come to work for me cool I'm not going
to raise you I'm not going to raise my
own children it's not the way that I'm
playing but godamn it when you come
inside of impact Theory we are going to
run this in a way that's going to be
effective it's going to make you a
better version of yourself that's going
to make you a better version of however
you're contributing to the company and
that [__] is a non-negotiable so
everybody has to sign a culture document
that says and I quote you must be a
hardcore [__] like period end of
story and if PS that turns you off great
this is not the place for you but I know
what it takes to actually fight against
the chaos of the world and you're going
to have to choose your enemy wisely in
fact this is something we haven't talked
about yet yet part of what I'm trying to
get them to now I think you have to
balance the beauty of what you're trying
to do I'm trying to make sure nobody
gets to the age of 15 without
encountering a growth mindset at scale
through entertainment and ideas
cool but then you also need to be able
to tap into the dark
energy and that to me is about an
ability
to capture the energy output of the fire
in your belly for lack of a more literal
expression so tell me why when picking
an enemy it needs to be somebody that
really makes me feel some kind of
way because uh choosing an enemy how do
you judge an enemy there's 14 different
types of enemy we talk about in the book
but the way you judge an enemy is the
lifespan of how long that enemy can
drive you you may have an enemy that
drives you for a
day you may have an enemy that drives
you for 30 seconds somebody cut you off
you got an enemy for about 30 seconds
okay you may have an enemy that drives
you for a month somebody you're going up
against for sales contest I'm going to
beat that guy okay cool short lifespan
not a big deal then you find an enemy
that drives you for 5 10 years 20 years
now you got something good unfortunately
Tom most people choose The Wrong Enemy
uh when they're when they're competing I
going to read something to is this the
book or is this a different book uh I
think is this the book let me see if
this is the book I'm I'm going to open
this up and see if this is the book or
not let's see here all right hang on one
second if it is I want to read this to
you oh [__] they sent you to heart look
at that look at you buddy respect I
don't even have this literally I'm tell
I don't even have this funny thing is I
didn't get it either I got a PDF so when
I saw it here I was like all right who
send this to you do you know who s I
don't know the team really so penguin
send
it okay well I don't have this I don't
have this cup that's Sam sent it e e
sent it so you got it directly from
penguin just so you know this is the
first time I'm
seeing copy of this let me read this to
you okay two quotes one A wise man gets
more use from his enemies than a fool
from his friends balazar gra graian let
me read the other one for you which
fires me up okay you have no enemies you
say my friend the boast is poor he who
has mingled in the fry
of Duty that the brave endure must have
made foes if you have none small is the
work that you have done you've hit no
traitor on the hip you've dashed no cuff
from the P perjured lip you've never
turned a wrong to right you've been a
coward in the fight Charles Mackey okay
all right so you read this coward I'm
not a coward I'm I'm not I'm not I'm not
going to be categorized as that totally
get it but if you're if you're going to
be doing something
big you're automatically going to have
some enemies
now we're looking at Elon Musk earlier
and we're talking about him and you look
at Elon who's been driving for this long
everybody asks isn't this guy worth $300
billion yeah what are you doing buying
Twitter when you're worth $300 billion
you're already running SpaceX you're
already running Tesla you got these
trucks that all of us are waiting for
okay you got to figure what happens with
that rock you threw out the glass that
the glass broke we got to fix that right
and at the same time how many kids you
have nine or 10 kids and you're doing
podcasts you're always on podcast you're
interviewing with people how the hell do
you have time to sleep why would you buy
Twitter and now you're the most second
most hated guy in America you didn't
become a friendly person when you bought
Twitter you got worse why would you want
to do something like that
psychologically you have to have issues
so then you ask the question okay say
this guy in three years is the first
trillionaire say it happens in a year
what do you think he's doing the next
day after he becomes a a trillionaire
you think he's taking three months off
and going to Monaco no not him why
because while the world thinks this
guy's doing it for money he's not doing
it for the money he's on a mission okay
fair but why at that level because he's
got something that drives him that none
of us know about could it be his father
very high likely that could be his
father could it be something else we
don't know about of course could it be
what these you know astronauts said
about him and made fun of him that we
think space experiments should be done
by the government and not by free
enterprise and free market maybe and it
got him tears if you've never seen that
60-minute interview I'm sure you have
right it could be but it's him now
Michael Jordan same thing Tom Brady
talking to him same thing anybody you
admire that's able to tolerate the kind
of pain required to win at the highest
level they have an enemy that drives
them they're just not telling you about
it most people will never disclose who
the true enemy is it's private Bill
Clinton in this one book uh it's called
The hypomanic Edge and you know First
Rate Madness I don't know if you've read
these books or not uh it talks about
bipolar hypomanic you know ADHD why all
these people that end up doing something
big they typically are a little bit off
how does this guy how is HE capable of
going 18 hours straight and he's still
doing it and yeah but what's wrong with
this guy how can he do that there's that
element that they just can't help
themselves right yeah Bill Clinton you
know they asked him about his mom and
his mom his mom drove him a lot most
people don't know about this and in one
of the interviews he said there's no
benefit from me saying anything bad
about my mom literally there's no
benefit for a man to say anything bad
about their moms you're not going to win
you're never going to be able to commiss
the marketplace you had a bad mom as a
man you can do it as a woman you cannot
do it as a man the Market's going to be
like how dare you say something now men
can talk trash about their dads the
market will receive it they'll make a
movie about it right but you can't do it
about your mom that was clintons who
drove him you know
people have it people now at the same
time you know 14 types of enemies in the
book that I talk about you know there's
also the concept of choosing the wrong
enemy that could steal decades from your
life decades away from your life
hypothetically I'm doing an event at the
Vault conference okay this is two years
ago and on the first night we go through
a personal audit questionnaire that you
got to go through and the next morning
you got to come back and talk about it
with the
group and we're looking to see who's
going to have a breakthrough based on
the questions that you have to answer
okay no these are 83 questions that I
went through back in 2003 at the Matador
Beach here by Zuma I'm sitting there
going through myself crying like a
little baby with my not yellow notepad
that I'm answering these questions I had
to break through boom I added these into
this list that people are going through
and they get to experience it for
themselves who do you get along with who
do you not get along with is there a
pattern of people that piss you off the
most why is that who do they remind you
of these types of things that kind of
for you to see what you're going through
so the next day 2,000 people in
attendance everybody's given theirs
husband and wife this the Breakthrough
we have another one the Breakthrough we
had one girl over here not getting up
her her sister's like elbowing on her my
sister wants to say something I think
she really had a big b breakthrough babe
what are you doing babe you got to tell
him babe tell them okay she gets up she
said Pat this is very hard I so what is
it so let me tell you who I am I've done
very well as a person who runs her own
business I make more money than All My
Exes I make more money than the guys of
my life I make more money than any of my
teachers I do very very well with the
salon I run I make very good money my
people make very good money I have a
nice house I drive a nice car I have
money in the bank I have all the Chanel
purses everything I said okay so what's
the point but I'm
alone I'm not married I don't have any
kids I don't have a family I don't have
somebody to look forward to coming home
to and talking to celebrating any of
this I so what's where you going with
this she says for the longest time men
have been the
enemy and I realized they're not I'm
wasting my time having men as an enemy
if you've ever seen a movie Jerry
Maguire where all the divorced women are
sitting around the table and they're
bitching about men and their husbands
and all this stuff and then Jerry walks
in and she's like I don't care I love
him you guys can send here bitching
about all your ex is all you want I love
this guy I love this guy I don't want to
be alone for the rest of my life I want
somebody in my life
they in that group had identified their
exes and men as all enemies she's like
I'm not joining your Camp you know how
hard it is to leave a camp like that
these are groups of people that go
through this how about some of the
people that are 65 years old that joined
a feminist movement at 15 years old
never got married have no kids how many
of these videos are going viral right
now on social media I wish I would have
never joined a movement I'm 65 I have a
cat no husband no kids what the hell am
I working for my parents are dead and
it's just me what's that all about so
many people choose the wrong enemy and
it cost them years if not Decades of
their lives you have a person in your
life that's challenging you pushing you
to get better encouraging you having
high expectation of you you think that's
the enemy that's not the enemy the
actual enemy in your life is the people
around you that are saying eat more
pizza here's more cheesecake sleep in
don't get to work screw your husband
hell with your wife I hate hate your
boss he's a [__] all he cares about his
money those are your enemies you got to
step away from those types of people who
ruin your life and then 17 years later
you used to work with a company that if
you would have stuck her and you would
have had a nice sex of $2.8 million but
you screwed up cuz you believe the other
people that quit and you never had that
experience and now you're sitting there
for the rest of your life trying to
explain to your kids why quitting was
the right decision but deep down s when
you go to sleep and you're in front of
the mirror you know what you tell
yourself made the biggest mistake I
should never done that so this is a very
much of
a emotional decision for a person to sit
there there's a formula on how to find
that I've been doing business planning
with guys for the last you know business
planning you know how it is if you have
a sales team H let's sit down do your
business planning for 2022 let's do the
business plan for 2006 how many years
have you been doing the business imagine
how many oneone business plans you've
done the month of December with people
right I would sit there and business
plan here's a one-page business plan
right and what are your goals for the
first quarter and how many calls are you
going to make and if you do this what
are you going to get yourself I'm going
to buy myself a new suit from such and
such and Stefano Richie I'm going to buy
myself a cclass or M5 or a Range Rover
we're going to buy this house and a
culde saac and all this other and here's
what we're going to do great you have a
little bit of dream the rest is logic
you write this thing maybe you look at
it for a month done you forgot where you
even typed it at and you don't remember
what's in it after March or April okay
where to me eventually got to point
where I judged the effective of
effectiveness of business plans based on
how we would do business plans together
and I see how you respond to it where
your energy goes how you come out the
gates in every year then I said we're
finally getting closer at learning how
to do better business plans with people
because you were able to pursue it and
it came down to 12 building blocks six
of the building blocks were
logical okay we're talking systems
processes things like that capital and
then six of the blocks were emotional
you have to study competition but your
competition is not going to drive you
the way you identifying your enemy
people who have the right enemy in their
lives um they'll be willing to tolerate
way more pain than those that don't have
the right enemy in their lives can you
describe
why because the point is if you don't do
it for the rest of your life the other
person's going to be able to say they
were right and can you live with that if
yes go for it fine if if not you ain't
doing it for the money you ain't doing
it cuz you need another Lambo or
something you're not a car guy we're
talking earlier this house you live in
that's a palace a place most people
around the world would dream about
living in this is a e Lamborghini garage
that you turn into what you turn into
cars don't drive you okay it's not
something that fires you up who cares if
you pull up in a Lambo okay maybe no
this is bigger than that this is about
you being able to look at yourself in a
mirror and saying I'm proud of you
others can say it to you it's great to
hear it from your mom and dad it's
magical I'm sure you remember when you
heard it when your family told you
they're proud of you very emotional
moment when you hear that right some
parents are loving so some parents say
the day you're born some parents don't
say it until way later on so if you got
I'm proud of you very early just because
you filled out a piece of paper it
doesn't have that big of a meaning but
if a parent didn't say that to you about
18 times while you're growing up and
then you heard the real I'm proud you at
32 years old you're in the car you're
going to cry by yourself it's a very
Monumental moment you going to I
remember that day when it happened to I
was speaking at this office on
citos and I pick up my mom from the
airport had seen her for seven years
since I was in the Army and she sees
what I'm doing and where I'm at that 26
years old she's like what happened to
you and you said yeah I'm proud of you I
remember my dad said it to me I'm proud
of you we're driving back from Long
Beach uh uh Queen Mary and we're in the
car and he sees what happen happened to
me and I told him you don't have to work
at a 99 cent store ever again at the
Englewood right next to Great Western
Forum I don't even know how I drove home
that night I was flying I wasn't driving
it's an incredible feeling but as great
as that
feels there's going to be a moment where
it's you're in the car by
yourself you're 43 years old 41 years
old 39 years old and you can sincerely
say I'm proud of you without low
standards that victory Of You versus you
is a powerful thing very powerful thing
when you go through that so and you're
going to need that right enemy to drive
you to go through those tough times cuz
they're coming they're going to come
it's given yes the book is fantastic man
where can people follow you and find the
book you know go to Value tan or Patrick
B David you'll you'll find my content
all right everybody if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace
to learn more about these complex topics
check out this episode with the one and
only Jordan Peterson man I am beside
myself with excitement to have you on
and for a few reasons one you've had
massive influence over the way that I
think and um you have been a
guide